The question from Lich Hoang Quan
HQY Thao Nhi has no diacritics. Why am I
kind and sincere, yet I can't
love a girl? I like
that. What should I do, teacher? Do I
need to break my karmic ties?
My love life is always so difficult, I'm so
sad. Please
share your advice. Dear audience, we are very
good people and we also wish to
love someone who is suitable for us,
but in reality, love also requires
karma. In
this life, we may be very good, but
if in a previous life we ​​made vows
and loved someone, we might
meet again,
and in this life, that person is
worthless. Because many people have
such vows, no matter where they go, they meet again. Life after life,
we are born as humans,
we will marry each other, or wherever we are, we will
marry each other. Because of
such vows, loving someone else is
impossible; it means we will meet again,
marry again, and then get bored with each other to
the point of never marrying again.
That's the first part,
that's why in Buddhism, we
often have days when the teacher allows us to make
Bodhi vows. That means
we will relinquish all our impure, evil, and wicked vows under the
witness of the teachers and make a Bodhi vow to
abandon evil and do good deeds.
When we make a Bodhi vow,
we haven't yet become monks or nuns. Instead,
in future lives, we
will meet someone who is
compatible with us, someone whose
thoughts are kind and good to us. Because it aligns
with our vow—a vow to abandon evil and
do good in every lifetime—then in the next life, we
will be born to someone who also has
that vow. That's how we enter the true
Dharma. Then, we need
another karmic connection before we can become monks or nuns, dear audience.
It's not like just making a Bodhi vow in
this life or the next doesn't automatically mean you'll become a monk or nun. Some
people
make a Bodhi vow and
are reborn into the monastic life in every lifetime, that's different. But
if you've only made a Bodhi vow and you're reborn in every lifetime,
abandoning evil and doing good deeds is different.  According to the true
Dharma alone, one is not yet a
person born into a monastic life. If one performs
good deeds, and within the realm of
shared vows,
one will encounter people who are compatible with one's own
good deeds and aspirations, and
will meet again. Let's
continue on our path.
If one is a kind-hearted person and doesn't fall into the first category,
then the second category is that, in the
current circumstances,
one might find people who exceed
one's expectations.
If one doesn't have
strong karmic connections with someone, then one should
only seek out people
like this. But if one is like this, then
one might seek out
people far superior to oneself. However, in
reality, this is just a normal part of life;
everything follows the law of
karma. So how can one expect to get what one desires
in life, not only in
love but in everything, to get
what one wants? Do we, fellow practitioners,
want to get everything we want to do? Then
we...  Give alms
as you wish, meaning that giving alms is good. Good
almsgiving allows people to have their wishes fulfilled.
For example, if you help someone,
you should help them all the way. Don't abandon them
halfway. For instance, if someone is
hungry, you can give them food; if they are
thirsty, you can give them water to drink; if
they want to sit, you can stand
up and offer them your place. That means
they will get what they want. When you give alms, they will be
happy and receive good things. The karmic
consequences will be
reflected in every
life you encounter,
and the circumstances will align with your desires. And you will always receive
help. So, in this life,
you should always
start giving alms. That means starting with
a
great intention to give alms, even in the smallest things. Many
Buddhists learn
this, but it's very difficult to practice it
completely because sometimes it's just
a seat in front of or behind someone else's seat, and
sometimes someone takes
your place, and you become like Snow
White.  And the Seven Dwarfs, that is, seven
tiny dwarfs who
lived in the forest, digging for food, living
selfishly. They were seven brothers, but they didn't even play
with each other. People were always thinking, "
Who took my seat? Who
ate from my spoon? Who
ate from my bowl?" That means they
couldn't give anything to anyone, nor could they
infringe on anyone's rights. They wouldn't yield. It's
just a fairy tale, but
we should learn a
lesson from it.
So, we must practice generosity with a heart that
benefits others, and later
we will receive blessings. The thoughts that
lead us to such things will lead to
success. Many
people think of many things, but some think of
something and succeed. Others think of
something and expect 99% success,
but when they try, they fail. So,
we must create a
cause-and-effect relationship: when we have a
thought, that thought must be right and lead to
success.  That means we are
in control when we sow the seeds. All sentient beings
are in control when they sow the seeds, but when they
reap the consequences, they are affected. So we
always sow good seeds to transform
the karmic consequences that we have sown in many lifetimes
without knowing the Dharma,
causing us to be passive. When we
repent and know our karma,
we can stop new karma because
we know that we are facing
evil consequences, so we can stop new karma. There are
two ways to stop this: firstly, we know
we are evil, which stops one type of
karma. Secondly, we stop creating karma, which
stops karma. That's stopping
karma and transforming karma. It's because we are
active, we practice, we make offerings and give alms, and
then it will transform quickly.
[music]
K